We want to go to our react app and there, I'll quit the development server too and here, I will also install
a new package with npm install --save and that will be socket.io-client.
So it's a different package name, it's socket.io-client because it is the code that will run on the
client,
hit enter and this will install that package into our react project.
Now once this is done, go to the feed.js file in your react project and there at the top,
first of all import with that frontend import syntax that differs from the backend syntax
and you can learn more about that in my react course.
But there, import open socket, you can name it however you want but this will be a function that opens
a new connection, a new socket, import open socket from socket.io-client,
so from that package you just installed.
So this exposes a function on the client too
and this is a function that allows you to connect.
Now let's go to that componentDidMount function here where we load our first posts and so on
and after we loaded these posts here, after this line, let's call this open socket function
and now you need to define the
url of the server where you've established your socket.io server and that of course is our backend
server address.
So it's http localhost 8080,
nothing else is required
and please note you do use http here because web sockets build up on that
and now this function which is provided by socket.io will do all the heavy lifting behind the scenes.
And if we now save that and we restart our frontend too and the backend is running as well,
let's wait for that development server to restart
so that our application here in the browser will actually reload.
And now this should have already executed this open socket code because the page did reload,
so if you now go to the backend, you indeed see client connected here because now we got an established
connection between a client and our backend application through socket.io and all the other normal
http requests will still work as before.
Now let's use that connection for something useful
and let's see what we could do with that socket.io connection
that would make sense in our app here.